Validator document update (#31)
Zilliqa/dev-portal: docs/pending-txn.md

---
id: pending-txn-api
title: Pending transaction API
--- 

> 

Reviewer: Add `This page describes .....`

> # Pending Txn API

Reviewer: Remove this line

> # Pending Txn API

Reviewer 2: Inconsistency between lines 3 and 6.  I prefer "Pending Transaction API"

## Introduction

> The shard nodes, at the end of every epoch send the lookup nodes infomration about transactions pending in their pool.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At the end of every Tx epoch, lookup nodes receive information from the shards about pending (i.e., unconfirmed) transactions in their transaction pool. This information is accessible through the API at the lookup nodes, and is refreshed once the latest Tx block is available.
```

> Three types of pending txns would be reported

Reviewer 2: Probably make this into a separate subsection after Introduction

> 1. Nonce too high : if in a shard’s mempool a txn is pending which has a nonce greater than the current nonce of the account.

Reviewer: txn -> transaction

> 2. Gas Limit Exceeded : if the txn in the mempool wasnt able to fit in the current MB due to limit being exceeded, it would show this error

Reviewer: txn -> transaction
MB -> microblock

Reviewer: limit -> gas limit

Reviewer: rephrase so that it is not so casual. The last part of the sentence

> 2. Gas Limit Exceeded : if the txn in the mempool wasnt able to fit in the current MB due to limit being exceeded, it would show this error

Reviewer 2: Better to put the actual strings reported. In this case it is `Could not fit in as microblock gas limit reached` I believe

> 3. Correct but consensus failure : for some reason if MB was not made and the txn still resides in the mempool, this would be reported.

Reviewer: What do you mean by `correct`? The reader may not be aware of it. 
`Transaction not processed due to failure in consensus`

> 3. Correct but consensus failure : for some reason if MB was not made and the txn still resides in the mempool, this would be reported.

Reviewer: txn -> transaction

> 3. Correct but consensus failure : for some reason if MB was not made and the txn still resides in the mempool, this would be reported.

Reviewer 2: I don't actually see this status returned in `StatusServer::IsTxnInMemPool`

> 4. Shard nodes send a packet to the lookup nodes, This contains the txn hash and a code which tells why the txn is pending.

Reviewer 2: Err it says there are 3 types but you have 5 bullet points

Reviewer 2: Just remove #4 I think.  And add the `NOT_PRESENT` case as well.

> 5. WHAT THE API DOES NOT DO : It would not tell if a txn is dropped.

Reviewer: rephrase this

> 5. WHAT THE API DOES NOT DO : It would not tell if a txn is dropped.

Reviewer 2: Maybe put this as a separate subsection "Limitations"

> Example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Example
```

```shell
curl -d '{
    "id": "1",
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "GetPendingTxn",
    "params": ["b9e545ab3ed0b61a4d326425569605255e0990da7dda18b4658fdb17b390844e"]
}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST "https://api.zilliqa.com/"
```

```json
{
    "id": "1",
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": {
        "code": 0,
        "confirmed": false,
        "info": "Txn not pending"
    }
}

> ```

Reviewer: @renlulu  possible to provide some example using sdk?
